this is Denmark for decades it's been
viewed as one of the best places to live
in the entire world ranking High across
many quality of life indicators like
healthc care education and
infrastructure it's no wonder that it
often been an attractive place for
migration from across the globe in fact
over the last three decades this has
gradually been rising as Denmark has
welcomed more and more migrants but in
the last few years public opinion on
this subject has complet changed and
Danes are taking a stronger stand
against migration than ever before
tensions are increasing in Denmark as
hordes of refugees continue pouring into
the country it has some of the most
restrictive immigration policies in the
EU we're not interested in getting a
whole lot of people who we supposed to
integrate migrants are arriving
Uninvited and refusing to adopt Danish
Customs since 2019 Denmark has shifted
its approach from integrating refugees
into society to now emphasizing their
return as soon as the situation in their
home country allows it in fact the term
integration has been replaced with
self-support and return in official
language in April 20121 Denmark began
revoking permits of some Syrian refugees
claiming it was now safe to return to
Damascus this of course sparked
controversy with some claiming it to be
inhumane but Denmark was unfaced by the
criticism and those affected have been
told to stay in return centers until
deportations resume or they decide to
return
voluntarily typically policies against
migration have tended to be occupied by
parties further towards the right of the
political Spectrum like the afd in
Germany or national rally in France but
in Denmark these policies have become
common place regardless of whether the
government has been left or right
leaning of all the Nordic countries
denark has the lowest net approval
ratings for migration from non-eu States
and a sentiment which is growing to many
Outsiders this may seem strange Denmark
like its Nordic neighbors is often seen
as some sort of liberal Utopia with a
strong welfare state and a generally
very tolerable view on migration in fact
neighboring Sweden which lies just a
10-minute driveway has taken in by far
the highest number of migrants of any
Nordic country but recently this is
turned sour as failures to integrate
have seen a spike in migrant related
gang violence across the country and its
major cities Denmark's approach to this
issue stands in stark contrast with what
many believed of the wealthy Nordic
regions being a welcome home for
migrants with its leaders saying that it
generous policies of the past had
betrayed the working classes who have
had to Bear the brunt of immigration and
integration failures and endangered the
welfare state but where has all of this
come from immigration in Denmark has
been gradually increasing for years now
so why is it only now reaching a boiling
[Music]
point Denmark is also facing another
issue it simply doesn't have enough
shows and films on its Netflix library
in fact it's got less than quite a few
of its European neighbors and unless
you're viewing from Slovakia then you
could be getting more films to fix this
you'll need the sponsor of today's video
surf shark VPN out of all the
subscriptions that I have Netflix
Spotify Amazon the one that I use most
is surf shock and it's by far the
cheapest While most subscriptions cost
upward of $15 surf shock is just $249 a
month and when you split that between
seven friends and family members it's
just 36 Cents each so for less than half
a dollar each month I get access to
better prices on products and flights
that use browser cookies to make things
more expensive I get to travel the world
virtually and I get to access sites that
are blocked by my region like Netflix
from another country and perhaps most
importantly I protect my anonymity from
online companies recording my data so to
start taking your internet browsing
seriously you can visit the link in the
description and if you use the code
invisible hand then you'll get to browse
safely for just $249 a month and you'll
also get four extra months completely
for free surf shock also has a 30-day
money back guarantee so you can rest
easy in your purchase click the link in
the description to find out more
Denmark is one of the richest countries
in the world with an average salary of
around
$53,000 and the sudden feelings of
negativity toward migration are to do
with a fundamental aspect of Danish life
and one which is held very dearly to its
citizens the Danish welfare
state Denmark has had one of the oldest
welfare states in the world which began
to take shape in the late 1800s with the
introduction of old age pensions and
health insurance when the world began to
industrialize Denmark although late to
the boom began to quickly grow too
incomes grew and its neutrality and
geography during both world wars meant
it didn't face as great a hardship as
some other European countries and could
rebuild its economy quickly after the
wars in the 50s and 60s the welfare
state was expanded again to include
comprehensive social security systems
including universal healthcare extensive
public housing education reforms and
more robust un employment benefits today
Danes can receive up to one whole year
of Parental leave and they offer some of
the most generous unemployment benefits
anywhere in the
world despite economic challenges in the
1970s and 80s Denmark maintained its
commitment to welfare programs
Healthcare and education are mostly free
and amongst the best in the world the
state is very generous but this needs to
be financed through taxes and Denmark
has maintained High tax rates for many
years the average Daye pay pays about
46% in income taxes with broad support
for this system because it provides a
high quality of life and a robust social
safety net but Denmark's existing model
of the welfare state has been put under
challenge in more recent years due to an
increase in migration currently
Denmark's welfare system functions
effectively because everyone contributes
to it while some individuals benefit
more from the system than they
contribute this is balanced by others
who pay in more than they take out and
this is after all the point of a welfare
model and this balance maintains its
equilibrium however this equilibrium
begins to shift when the number of
people drawing from the welfare state
increases without a corresponding rise
in contributions immigration to Denmark
has been higher than immigration over
the past decade contributing to the
population growth of the country and as
of 2014 more than 8% of Denmark's
population consisted of immigrants with
a large part originating from
non-western countries however realize
the problem incomes earned by
non-western migrants tend to be
significantly lower than Danes annual
income before tax for male residents
from Syria eretria Somalia and Bulgaria
was on average
3,000 for Danes it was almost twice as
much at
0,600 this also translates into wealth
as savings among 60 to 69y olds with a
non-western background were eight times
less than native Danes this makes sense
for first generation migrants who will
take time to learn the language and
develop the skills necessary to earn a
higher wage in the economy but when this
effect persists across Generations
clearly migrants which have come to
Denmark have not been integrating well
and this presents a problem this paper
from the Danish government analyzes the
net Financial contribution of those
living in Denmark calculated by
subtracting their total costs from their
total contributions to the state
finances and if found that native Danish
people contributed a net total of 41
billion Danish crones while those from a
non-western background and their
descendants had a net negative
contribution of negative 24 billion
crones children and the elderly usually
take out more than they put in
regardless of origin and to balance this
people of working age need to contribute
significantly more but even when
adjusting for factors like age the
result is still clear in general net
contributions are positive for Western
countries and negative for Mena
countries because of this poor
integration child poverty is common
among non-western families in Denmark
where 36% of children aged between 10
and 14 were found to live in relative
poverty that is under 50% of the median
income compare this to only 2% among
Danish children of that age put simply
poverty increases crime and quite often
violent crime this study Based on data
from us counties found that the 10% of
people living in the poorest counties
had almost a six times higher homicide
rate than the 10% living in the least
poor counties and a rising crime linked
to Poverty has been a fear for many in
Denmark and they don't have to look far
to see why as we mentioned gang
involvement and violent crime has been
an issue in Denmark's neighbor Sweden
less than 10 years ago Sweden had one of
the lowest gun crime rates in Europe and
today it ranks second highest in
Stockholm gun violence is appr o imately
30 times greater than in London and it's
facing a major violent crime issue
predominantly controlled by individuals
with a migration background this is
already happening in Denmark as violent
crime is committed disproportionately by
those from non-western backgrounds stats
like this can often be misleading as
many migrants are young men who
regardless of origin are going to commit
more crime anyway but even after
adjusting for age and gender we can see
that crime rates are disproportionately
higher from those from from men apt
backgrounds Denmark has looked to
address this issue with a policy which
has sparked a lot of controversy
Denmark's ghetto plan is a controversial
policy aimed at eliminating so-called
ghettos in the country by 2030 this is a
plan to reduce crime and unemployment
and increase integration in
neighborhoods with high concentrations
of immigrants particularly those from
nonwestern countries one of the central
measures of Denmark's ghetto package is
the mandatory child care and education
requirement for children of over the age
of one from non-western backgrounds
these children must spend at least 25
hours a week in daycare where they are
taught the Danish language and National
values when non-compliance with this
requirement results in a reduction of
social welfare payments for families
another significant aspect involved the
Demolition and privatization of public
housing in designated ghetto areas these
neighborhoods identified by having over
50% non-western residents are targeted
for redevelopment to red diversify the
demographic
map public housing units in these areas
are either demolished or sold to private
investors with the intent of attracting
wealthier predominantly Western
residents by 2030 the government aims
for these neighborhoods to have no more
than 30% non-western residents believing
that a more balanced ethnic composition
will reduce crime and improve
integration labeling the measures as
essential but perhaps unsurprisingly
these policies have also faced criticism
residents across Copenhagen have
protested the law calling it straight up
racism that discriminates based on
ethnicity and origin with banners
declaring our apartments are not for
sale and experts argue that the law
stigmatizes immigrants and contributes
to further segregation rather than
promoting integration as intended but
this hasn't done much to stop the policy
while the government has abandoned the
controversial term ghetto the overall
policy approach has largely continued
under the new terminology of parallel
societies Denmark is also taking
measures to enable fewer migrants
entering the country each year by
Leading a group of 15 EU member states
in calling for the EU to do more to
prevent migrants from arriving to the EU
borders in the first place which
includes incentivizing non-eu countries
along migration routes to accept large
numbers of refugees last year Denmark
announced it was temporarily abandoning
plans to Outsource Asylum procedures to
Rwanda but had not given up on the idea
of partnering with third countries
outside Europe to handle migrants such
as Albania and turkey and if you're from
the UK then this system may seem
familiar as it's very similar to
Britain's own Rwanda law which was
signed into law in April 2024 before
being dismantled by new prime minister K
Dharma directly after coming into office
it's clear to see that Denmark is taking
a number of measures which are not only
stricter but more radical than many
other European countries Denmark is
still facing labor shortages
but these are in high-skilled vacancies
which tend to be ones which cannot be
quickly Filled from Asylum Seekers the
fame systems of Denmark and Sweden have
made these nations appear to be
attractive destinations wherein many
newcomers and prospective citizens have
hopefully anticipated strong
governmental assistance with their
relocation and integration efforts thus
the attractiveness of the Nordic region
to both easn Europeans and non-europeans
relied heavily on the area's reputation
as a Welfare Society however as time has
gone on the difference in the approach
between migration in these two countries
has become clear especially as Denmark
has witnessed some of the downsides of
poor integration in Sweden its policies
are certainly controversial but with
these opinions on the rise across Europe
as seen in the latest elections will
other countries start adopting similar
measures soon